Russia has attacked Ukraine's power
infrastructure with drones and missiles
leaving around a million people without
power and at least five people dead
Ukraine's State hydropower company said
a Russian strike hit Ukraine's largest
dam in zapia but there was no risk of a
breach Russia says the air strikes were
to avenge Ukrainian attacks on Russian
territory let's speak to aan Europe
correspondent Sarah rsford who is in C
for us just tell us more about these
targeted strikes Sarah
well this was a massive attack overnight
by Russia it's the biggest that we've
had here for quite some time a
combination of missiles and drones fired
by Russia they say they were targeting
the energy infrastructure here and
certainly uh there were a number of uh
hits on uh Power facilities power plants
across the country now the missiles and
drones were fired right across Ukraine
north south east and west uh cities
across this country were targeted we
know that hard Ukraine's Second City in
the north of this country has been left
almost completely without power in fact
even the air raay systems there the
centralized ones are not working because
of the power outage and people are being
told that get a notification of further
missile attacks on their phones the
traffic lights are down the water is
disrupted it's the same in other cities
uh in Ukraine we know that the zapia uh
Power Plant the giant hydroelectric
plant the biggest one in the country
that was also hit We Believe by several
missiles uh we've been told uh by
officials here that there is no danger
that the dam itself will be breached but
obviously this is an extremely uh
worrying attack for Ukraine remember
civilian infrastructure here has been
targeted right throughout this war if
you remember the first winter of this
war it was one of the uh the calling
cars if you like of Russia they hit
power plants time and time again at the
most freezing time of the year here it's
slightly warmer now but these attacks
are still absolutely devastating for
Ukraine Sarah rsford in ke thank you
very much indeed